Unit 4  Novels 
Bilingual Reading
A Christmas Carol 
Extract 1 

Oh! But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grindstone, Scrooge! A squeezing, wrenching, grasping, scraping, clutching, covetous old sinner! Hard and sharp as flint, from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire; secret and self-contained, and solitary as an oyster. The cold within him froze his old features, nipped his pointed nose, shrivelled his cheek, stiffened his gait; made his eyes red, his thin lips blue; and spoke out shrewdly in his grating voice. A frosty rime was on his head, and on his eyebrows, and his wiry chin. He carried his own low temperature always about with him; he iced his office in the dog-days; and didn’t thaw it one degree at Christmas.

External heat and cold had little influence on Scrooge.  No warmth could warm, no wintry weather chill him.  No wind that blew was bitterer than he, no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose, no pelting rain less open to entreaty.  Foul weather didn’t know where to have him.  The heaviest rain, and snow, and hail, and sleet, could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect.  They often ‘came down’ handsomely, and Scrooge never did.

Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say, with gladsome looks, ‘My dear Scrooge, how are you?  When will you come to see me?’  No beggars implored him to bestow a trifle, no children asked him what it was o’clock, no man or woman ever once in all his life inquired the way to such and such a place, of Scrooge.  Even the blind men’s dogs appeared to know him; and when they saw him coming on, would tug their owners into doorways and up courts; and then would wag their tails as though they said, ‘No eye at all is better than an evil eye, dark master.’

But what did Scrooge care!  It was the very thing he liked.
	噢！但石顾己可是一个要从石头里榨出油来的人哪！石顾己啊！一个又挤、有捞、有刮、又贪、又抠的老奸巨滑！他犹如有硬又尖的打火石，没有任何钢棒可以打出慷慨的火花；而且，他又宛若牡蛎一般神秘、封闭且孤僻。他内心的冷酷使老朽的躯体蒙上一层寒霜，冻伤了他尖挺的鼻梁，冻皱了他的双颊、冻僵了他步伐，并使他双眼通红、薄唇发紫，连他的沙哑的声音所说出来的话语，也十分冰冷刺骨。他的头顶、眉骨及瘦削的下巴上，都覆盖着白皑皑的寒霜。那股寒意总是与他如影随形，即使是盛夏，他也可以让办公室的气温降至冰点，甚至是圣诞节，情形依旧如此。

石顾己几乎不受外界的冷热影响。没有任何的暖意可以温暖他，也没有任何冷冽的天气可以叫他打寒颤。他比刺骨的寒风更为冷冽，比一心想降至人间的落雪更为冰冷，也比倾盆的暴雨更为无情。恶劣的天气根本打不倒他。大雨、落雪或冰雹惟一能夸口赢得了他的是，至少他们经常大方地“布施”，石顾己可从来没这样做过。

人们在大街上碰到石顾己，从不会和颜悦色地向他寒暄：“亲爱的石顾己，你好吗？什么时候你要来我家坐坐？”没有乞丐会向他乞求微薄的施舍，也没有孩童会询问他时间，更从未有人向他问路。盲人的导盲犬似乎也认得他，他们看见他走来，会拖着主人转进门廊或小巷里，然后摇着尾巴，仿佛在说：“失明的主人啊！失去双眸，也强过拥有那双邪恶的眼睛。”

但石顾己才不在乎呢！他乐得如此。
（辛--立译）
A Christmas Carol 
Extract 2
Scrooge was better than his word.  He did it all, and infinitely more; and to Tiny Tim, who did NOT die, he was a second father.  He became as good a friend, as good a master, and as good a man, as the good old city knew, or any other good old city, town or borough, in the good old world.  Some people laughed to see the alteration in him, but he let them laugh, and little heeded them; for he was wise enough to know that nothing ever happened on this globe, for good, at which some people did not have their fill of laughter at the outset, and knowing that such as these would be blind anyway, he thought it quite as well that they should wrinkle up their eyes in grins, as have the malady in less attractive forms.  His own heart laughed: and that was quite enough for him.


He had no further intercourse with Spirits, but lived upon the Total Abstinence Principle, ever afterwards; and it was always said of him, that he knew how to keep Christmas well, if any man alive possessed the knowledge.  May that be truly said of us, and all of us!  And so, as Tiny Tim observed, God bless Us, Every One!
	石顾己做得比说得更好。他一切都履行了，而且还做得更多。他成了小提姆—后来并没有死亡—的教父。他成了一个好朋友、好老板、好人，这个古老的伦敦城，或是这个古老世界里任何古老城镇，都知道他是个好人。有些人嘲笑他的转变，但石顾己任由他们嘲弄，从不多加理会。因为他很聪明地知道，这个地球上所发生的一切好事，一开始总会受到某些人的嘲笑，而他知道，这些人都是很盲目的，盲人笑眯了眼的模样，总要比其他不讨喜欢的模样来得好一点。总之，他的心会微笑，这就够了。

他再也没有和精灵打过交道，此后也滴酒不沾。不过，一提到他，大家都会说，任何人都知道，石顾己是最会过圣诞节的人。希望我们大家都是这样！最后，引用一句小提姆的话：上帝保佑我们，保佑我们每个人。
（辛--立译）

Heart of Darkness 
Extract 1
The ‘Nellie’, a cruising yawl, swung to her anchor without a flutter of the sails, and was at rest.  The flood had made, the wind was nearly calm, and being bound down the river, the only thing for it was to come to and wait for the turn of the tide.

The sea reach of the Thames stretched before us like the beginning of an interminable waterway.  In the offing the sea and the sky were welded together without a joint, and in the luminous space the tanned sails of the barges drifting up with the tide seemed to stand still in red clusters of canvas sharply peaked, with the gleams of varnished sprits. A haze rested on the low shores that ran out to sea in vanishing flatness. The air was dark above Gravesend, and farther back still seemed condensed into a mournful gloom, brooding motionless over the biggest, and the greatest, town on earth.

The Director of Companies was our captain and our host.  We four affectionately watched his back as he stood in the bows looking to seaward.  On the whole river there was nothing that looked half so nautical.  He resembled a pilot, which to a seaman is trustworthiness personified.  It was difficult to realise that his work was not out there in the luminous estuary, but behind him, within the brooding gloom.


The sun set; the dusk fell on the stream, and lights began to appear along the shore. The Chapman lighthouse, a three-legged thing erect on a mudbank, shone strongly. Lights of ships moved in the fairway – a great stir of lights going up and going down.  And farther west on the upper reaches the place of the monstrous town was still marked ominously on the sky, a brooding gloom in sunshine, a lurid glare under the stars.

‘And this also,’ said Marlow suddenly, ‘has been one of the dark places of the earth.’
	“奈丽”号小艇摇晃几下后抛锚停船，船上的风帆纹丝不动。潮水已经涨高，大风也已平息。船正沿江而下，现在只好停泊等待退潮。

泰晤士河的入海口在我的眼前伸展，仿佛是一条横无际涯的水路的开端。远处水面上，海天一色，浑无间隙。在明净的天空下，几艘驳船缓缓行驶在潮水中，船上黑褐色的风帆反衬着尖尖的红帆布，好像着色后的鬼魂放着幽光。海滩笼罩在一片烟雾中，平坦地向大海蜿蜒，消失在烟波浩淼之处。格雷夫森港上空天色阴沉，越往里越暗淡，凝结成一团朦胧，盘旋在这座世界上最伟大的城市之上，森然可怖。

公司经理便是我们的船长和老板。当他伫立船头眺望大海时，我们四人深情地注视着他的背影。整条河上没有人看上去比他更像个海员。他酷似一位领航员，而在海员的眼里，领航员就是信赖的化身，但谁又会想到，他的岗位并不在远处波光粼粼的河口，而是在他身后的那片朦胧里。

太阳西沉，黄昏降临河上，岸上出现了一排灯光。恰普曼灯塔熠熠闪烁，它像一只三脚架矗立在烂泥平台上。船上的灯光在河流的航道上摇曳，一束束灯光飘忽不定。再往西，在河段的上游，这座庞大的城市所在的地方仍不详地映照在天际，夕阳中的一团阴霾，星星下的一片血红光亮。

“这个地方，”马洛突然开口道“这也是世界上一个黑暗的地方。”
(孙礼中译)

Heart of Darkness
Extract 2
‘Going up that river was like travelling back to the earliest beginnings of the world, when vegetation rioted on the earth and the big trees were kings.  An empty stream, a great silence,  an impenetrable forest.  The air was warm, thick, heavy, sluggish.  There was no joy in the brilliance of sunshine.  The long stretches of the waterway ran on, deserted, into the gloom of overshadowed distances.  On silvery sandbanks hippos and alligators sunned themselves side by side.  The broadening waters flowed through a mob of wooded islands; you lost your way on that river as you would in a desert, and butted all day long against shoals, trying to find the channel, till you thought yourself bewitched and cut off for ever from everything you had known once – somewhere – far away – in another existence perhaps. There were moments when one’s past came back to one, as it will sometimes when you have not a moment to spare to yourself, but it came in the shape of an unrestful and noisy dream, remembered with wonder amongst the overwhelming realities of this strange world of plants, and water, and silence. And this stillness of life did not in the least resemble a peace. It was the stillness of an implacable force brooding over an inscrutable intention.  It looked at you with a vengeful aspect….”
	“沿那条河上行，就像回到世纪之初，地球上草木丛生，巨大的树木如君主一般，一条空无人烟的河流，一片茫无边际的寂静，一座无法进入的森林。空气温暖，浓重而呆滞，灿烂的阳光下却没有欢乐，荒芜人烟的漫长水路绵延向前，一直延伸到远方浓荫的幽幽暗暗之中。银色的沙滩上，河马和短吻鳄靠在一起晒太阳，河水变得宽阔，流过好多长满树木的小岛。你会在那条河上迷路，就像在沙滩里一样；你会成天往沙滩上撞，试图找到河床，直到你以为自己着了魔，从此与那些你曾经熟知的一切永远隔绝了—这一切在某个地方，也许在另一个世界。有时候，你的过去会掠过你的心头，就像经常会在你一点闲暇也没有时的那样；但过去是以一种躁动而喧嚣的梦境的形式回来的。这时你会纳闷自己居然想起往事，毕竟，你正为这个被植物、水和寂静组成的奇异世界的压倒一切的现实所围绕。这种生命的寂静并不代表安宁，这是一种难以平息的力量所表现出来的寂静，而这种力量正沉思着某种琢磨不透的动机，它以一种复仇的神态注视着你……“
（孙礼中译）


Heart of Darkness 
Extract 3
‘Sometimes we came upon a station close by the bank, clinging to the skirts of the unknown, and the white men rushing out of a tumbledown hovel, with great gestures of joy and surprise and welcome, seemed very strange-- had the appearance of being held there captive by a spell.  The word ‘ivory’ would ring in the air for a while – and on we went again into the silence, along empty reaches, round the still bends, between the high walls of our winding way, reverberating in hollow claps the ponderous beat of the stern wheel.   Trees, trees, millions of trees, massive, immense, running up high; and at their foot, hugging the bank against the stream, crept the little begrimed steamboat, like a sluggish beetle crawling on the floor of a lofty portico.  It made you feel very small, very lost, and yet it was not altogether depressing that feeling.  After all, if you were small, the grimy beetle crawled on – which was just what you wanted it to do.  Where the pilgrims imagined it crawled to I don’t know.  To some place where they expected to get something, I bet!  For me it crawled towards Kurtz – exclusively; but when the steam-pipes started leaking we crawled very slow.  The reaches opened before us and closed behind, as if the forest had stepped leisurely across the water to bar the way for our return.  We penetrated deeper and deeper into the heart of darkness.  It was very quiet there.  At night sometimes the roll of drums behind the curtain of trees would run up the river and remain sustained faintly, as if hovering in the air high over our heads, till the first break of day.  Whether it meant war, peace, or prayer we could not tell.  The dawns were heralded by the descent of a chill stillness; the woodcutters slept, their fires burned low; the snapping of a twig would make you start.  We were wanderers on a prehistoric earth, on an earth that wore the aspect of an unknown planet.  We could have fancied ourselves the first of men taking possession of an accursed inheritance, to be subdued at the cost of profound anguish and of excessive toil.  But suddenly, as we struggled round a bend, there would be a glimpse of rush walls, of peaked grass roofs, a burst of yells, a whirl of black limbs, a mass of hands clapping, of feet stamping, of bodies swaying, of eyes rolling, under the droop of heavy and motionless foliage.  The steamer toiled along slowly on the edge of a black and incomprehensible frenzy.  The prehistoric man was cursing us, praying to us, welcoming us – who could tell?  We were cut off from the comprehension of our surroundings; we glided past like phantoms, wondering and secretly appalled, as sane men would be before an enthusiastic outbreak in a madhouse.  We could not understand, because we were too far and could not remember, because we were travelling in the night of first ages, of those ages that are gone, leaving hardly a sign – and no memories.
	有时我们会经过紧挨着河岸，紧挨着那片未知地域边缘的一个贸易站，白人们从一间摇摇欲坠的茅屋里冲出来，打着很多表示高兴、惊奇和欢迎的手势，看起来十分古怪—看上去像是被符咒镇在那儿当了俘虏，‘象牙’这个词照例会在空气中回响一阵子—然后又一次驶入寂静，沿着一片没有人烟的水道，绕过一个个平静的转角，穿过蜿蜒航程中的峭壁，船尾外轮沉重的击水声空洞地回响着。树，树，成千上万的树，无边无际的粗壮树木直插云霄，在它们脚下，我那只脏兮兮的小汽船正紧贴着河岸慢慢地逆水而上，如同一只在高大门廊的地板上爬行的呆呆的小甲虫。这让你感到十分渺小，十分迷茫。但那种感觉并不让人压抑，毕竟，即使你很渺小，那只肮脏的小甲虫仍一直向前爬着—而这正是你想要的，我不知道在朝圣者的想象中它会爬向什么地方，但我相信他们一定希望它爬到一个能让他们有所收获的地方，对我来说，它在爬向克尔兹—仅此而已。但漏气管开始漏气了，之后我们就爬得非常慢。一段水道在我们面前展开，又在我们身后合拢，森林似乎优哉优哉地经过河流，阻断了我们的归途，我们越来越深地侵入黑暗的中心，一个安静的地方。夜晚，有时会从树林的帷幕后传来隆隆的鼓点声，这声音沿河而上，隐隐约约地持续很久，仿佛在我们头上高高盘旋，直到第一线曙光出现才散去。我们说不清这鼓声是意味着战争或是祈祷，黎明之前总会有一阵清冷的寂静降临；伐木工都睡着了，他们的篝火快要灭了；这时候折断一根树枝都可能让你吓一跳，我们是一群在史前大地上的漫游者，这片土地有着一种未知星球的外观。我们几乎可以幻想自己是接受一份被诅咒遗产的第一批人，要征服这笔遗产，我们得付出刻骨的伤痛和过度的辛劳。然而，当我们奋力转过河弯时，会突然瞥见那静静垂着的浓荫下拥挤的墙垛，尖尖的草屋顶，许多黑色的肢体在旋转，许多眼睛在骨碌碌转，还会听到爆发出的呼喊声，许多手的拍击声，许多脚的跺地声。这些史前时代的人是在诅咒我们，是向我们祈祷，还是在欢迎我们呢？谁又能断定？我们对周围的环境已完全不能理解；我们入幽灵般悄悄滑过，内心充满惊讶，也在暗暗害怕，就像一个神志正常的人面 对精神病院里一场狂暴骚乱时的感觉，我们不能理解，因为我们离得太远，已经记不起来了；因为我们是在创世之处的时代—那些早已逝去的时代的黑夜里航行，我们身后几乎没留下一丝痕迹—也没有留下任何记忆。

Jane Eyre
Extract 1
Though I had now extinguished my candle and was laid down in bed, I could not sleep for thinking of his look when he paused in the avenue, and told how his destiny had risen up before him, and dared him to be happy at Thornfield.


‘Why not?’ I asked myself. ‘What alienates him from the house?  Will he leave it again soon?  Mrs Fairfax said he seldom stayed here longer than a fortnight at a time; and now he has been resident eight weeks.  If he does go, the change will be doleful.  Suppose he should be absent spring, summer and autumn: how joyless sunshine and fine days will seem!’



I hardly know whether I had slept or not after this musing; at any rate, I started wide awake on hearing a vague murmur, peculiar and lugubrious, which sounded, I thought, just above me.  I wished I had kept my candle burning: the night was drearily dark; my spirits were depressed.  I rose and sat up in bed, listening.  The sound was hushed.



I tried to sleep; but my heart beat anxiously, my inward tranquillity was broken.  The clock, far down in the hall, struck two.  Just then it seemed my chamber-door was touched, as if fingers had swept the panels in groping a way along the dark gallery outside.  I said, ‘Who is there?’  Nothing  answered.  I was chilled with fear.


All at once I remembered that it might be Pilot, who, when the kitchen door chanced to be left open, not infrequently found his way up to the threshold of Mr Rochester’s chamber: I had seen him lying there myself in the mornings.  The idea calmed me somewhat: I lay down.  Silence composes the nerves; and as an unbroken hush now reigned again through the whole house, I began to feel the return of slumber.  But it was not fated that I should sleep that night.  A dream had scarcely approached my ear, when it fled affrighted, scared by a marrow-freezing incident enough.

This was a demoniac laugh – low, suppressed, and deep – uttered, as it seemed, at the very keyhole of my chamber door.  The head of my bed was near the door, and I thought at first the goblin-laugher stood at my bedside – or rather, crouched by my pillow.  But I rose, looked round, and could see nothing; while, as I still gazed, the unnatural sound was reiterated, and I knew it came from behind the panels.  My first impulse was to rise and fasten the bolt; my next, again to cry out, ‘Who is there?’


Something gurgled and moaned.  Ere long, steps retreated up the gallery towards the third-story staircase; a door had lately been made to shut in that staircase; I heard it open and close, and all was still.


‘Was that Grace Poole? And is she possessed with a devil?’  thought I.  Impossible now to remain longer by myself; I must go to Mrs Fairfax.  I hurried on my frock and shawl; I withdrew the bolt and opened the door with a trembling hand.  There was a candle burning just outside, left on the matting in the gallery.  I was surprised at this circumstance; but still more was I amazed to perceive the air quite dim, as if filled with smoke; and while looking to the right hand and left, to find whence these blue wreaths issued, I became further aware of a strong smell of burning.



Something creaked: it was a door ajar; and that door was Mr Rochester’s, and the smoke rushed in a cloud from thence.  I thought no more of Mrs Fairfax; I thought no more of Grace Poole, or the laugh: in an instant I was within the chamber.  Tongues of flame darted round the bed; the curtains were on fire.  In the midst of blaze and vapour, Mr Rochester lay stretched motionless, in deep sleep.



‘Wake! Wake!’ I cried.  I shook him, but he only murmured and turned: the smoke had stupefied him.  Not a moment could be lost; the very sheets were kindling.  I rushed to his basin and ewer; fortunately, one was wide and the other deep, and both were filled with water.  I heaved them up, deluged the bed and its occupant, flew back to my own room, brought my own water-jug, baptised the couch afresh, and, by God’s aid, succeeded in extinguishing the flames which were devouring it.
	虽说这会儿我已经吹灭了蜡烛上了床，可是却怎么也不能入睡，心里一直在想着他在林阴道上停住脚步，告诉我他的命运之神突然出现在他面前，问他敢不敢在桑菲尔德获取幸福时的神情。

“为什么不敢呢？”我暗自纳闷，“是什么迫使他离开这座房子呢？他很快又要离开这儿么？费尔法克斯太太曾经说过，他很少在这儿连住两个星期以上，可这次他已住了八个星期了。要是他真走的话，那这种变化可就让人犯愁了。如果他春天、夏天直到秋天都不在这儿，那就连和煦的阳光和晴朗的天气，也都会显得多么没有乐趣啊！”

这样想了一阵以后，我不知道自己后来到底有没有睡着过。总之，我突然听到一阵奇怪而凄惨的喃喃低语声，把我完全给惊醒了。而且我觉得这声音好像发自我的头顶。我真巴望蜡烛要是点着该有多好。夜黑得可怕，我感到心情紧张。我翻身从床上坐起，侧耳细听。声音沉寂了。

我想躺下接着再睡，但心里一直惶恐不安，心怦怦直跳，我内心的平静给打破了。远在楼下大厅里的钟敲响了两点。正在这时，我的房门好像给碰了一下，仿佛有人在漆黑的走廊里摸索着走路，手指从门上摸过去似的。我问“是谁？”没有回答。我吓得浑身发冷。

忽然间，我想起这也许是派洛特。厨房门偶尔忘了关上时，它常会循路上楼来到落切斯特先生的房门口去。有几天早上，我亲眼看到过它躺在那儿。这样一想，多少使我镇静了一些，就又躺了下来。寂静使神经归于安定。整座宅子现在重又笼罩在一片沉寂之中，我又感到了睡意的来临。然而这一夜注定了我不能睡觉，梦神刚刚来到我的头边，就让一件叫人毛骨悚然的可怕事给吓得惊惶逃跑了。

这是一阵魔鬼般的笑声—低沉而压抑—听起来像从我门上的锁孔那儿发出似的。而我的床头就在房门近旁，我开头还以为大笑的魔鬼就站在我的床边---或者不如说，就蹲在我的床头。我翻身坐起，朝四下张望，可是什么也看不见。我在瞪眼张望时，那怪异的声音又响了起来。我辨出它是从门外发出来的。我首先想到的是赶紧起身去插上门闩，随后又大声地问了一声：“谁？”

有什么东西发出咯咯的笑声和轻轻的呜咽声。不一会儿，又听到脚步声沿走廊走向通往三楼的楼梯，那儿最近做了一扇门，把楼梯关进了里面。我听见那扇门打开了，又关上了，然后一切归于寂静。

“这是格雷斯• 普尔吧？它是不是中魔了？”我心里想。现在再在不能独自一人呆着了，我得上费尔法克斯太太那儿去。我赶紧穿好外衣，围上披巾，用哆嗦的手拉开门闩，打开门。门外有一支点燃的蜡烛，而且就放在过道的地席上。我看到这情景不禁吃了一惊，然而更使我大为惊异的是发现空气中一片浑浊，好像充满了烟雾。我朝左右查看，想找出这些青烟是从哪儿冒出来的，这时我进一步觉出有一股浓烈的烧焦味儿。

什么东西嘎吱响了一下，有扇门开了一条缝，那是罗切斯特先生房间的房门。云雾一般的浓烟就是从那里面冒出来的。我已顾不得再去想费尔法克斯太太，也顾不得再去想格雷斯•普尔那怪笑声，只一眨眼功夫，我就奔进了那间房间。火舌在床的四周跳跃，帐子已经着火。在烟熏火燎之中，罗切斯特先生摊开手脚，一动不动，睡得正香。

“醒醒！醒醒！”我喊叫着，使劲摇他，但他只是嘟哝了一声，翻了个身，浓烟已经把他熏迷糊了。床单已经着火，时间刻不容缓；我迅速冲到他的脸盆和水罐跟前，幸好脸盆很大，水罐很深，而且里面都盛满水。我端起它们，把水全都泼到床上和睡觉的人身上；接着又飞也似地跑回我自己的房间，端来我的水罐，给那张床又施了一回洗礼。上帝保佑，总算把那正在吞噬着它的火焰扑灭了。

（松兆霖译）

Jane Eyre 
Extract 2
My tale draws to its close: one word respecting my experience of married life, and one brief glance at the fortunes of those whose names have most frequently recurred in this narrative, and I have done.

I have now been married ten years.  I know what it is to live entirely for and with what I love best on earth. I hold myself supremely blest – blest beyond what language can express, because I am my husband’s life as fully as he is mine.  No woman was ever nearer to her mate than I am – ever more absolutely bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh.  I know no weariness of my Edward’s society – he knows none of mine, any more than we do of the pulsation of the heart that beats in our separate bosoms: consequently, we are ever together.  To be together is for us to be at once as free as in solitude and as gay as in company.  We talk, I believe, all day long: to talk to each other is but a more animated and an audible thinking.  All my confidence is bestowed on him, all his confidence is devoted to me; we are precisely suited in character – perfect concord is the result.
	我的故事已接近尾声。只要再说几句有关我婚后生活的经历，简要提一下这篇故事中常提到的那几个人的命运，我就可以结束了。


到现在我结婚已有十年了。我知道一心跟我在世上最爱的人在一起生活，为他而生活是怎么回事。我认为自己无比幸福---幸福到难以用语言形容，因为我完全是我丈夫的生命，正像他完全是我的生命一样。没有哪个女人比我更亲近丈夫，更完完全全是他的骨中骨，肉中肉了。我跟我的爱德华在一起，永远不会感到厌倦，正像我们俩各自对自己胸膛中那颗心的跳动永远不会厌倦一样。因而我们总是厮守在一起。对我们来说，守在一起既箱独处时一样自由，又像在伙伴中间一样欢乐。我想我们整天都在交谈，而互相交谈只不过是一种更加生动活跃、可以听见的思考罢了。我把全部信赖都叫给了他，他把全部信赖都献给了我。我们的性情正好相投—结果自然是完美的和谐。
（松兆霖译）

The Pearl 
Extract 1
Kino awakened in the near dark.  The stars still shone and the day had drawn only a pale wash of light in the lower sky to the east.  The roosters had been crowing for some time, and the early pigs were already beginning their ceaseless turning of twigs and bits of wood to see whether anything to eat had been overlooked. Outside the brush house in the tuna clump, a covey of little birds chattered and flurried with their wings.

Kino’s eyes opened, and he looked first at the lightening square which was the door and then he looked at the hanging box where Coyotito slept.  And last he turned his head to Juana, his wife, who lay beside him on the mat, her blue head shawl over her nose and over her breasts and around the small of her back.  Juana’s eyes were open too.  Kino could never remember seeing them closed when he awakened.  Her dark eyes made little reflected stars.  She was looking at him as she was always looking at him when he awakened.

Kino heard the little splash of morning waves on the beach.  It was very good – Kino closed his eyes again to listen to the music.  Perhaps he alone did this and perhaps all of his people did it.  His people had once been great makers of songs so that everything they saw or thought or did or heard became a song.  That was very long ago.  The songs remained.  Kino knew them, but no new songs were added.  That does not mean there were no personal songs.  In Kino’s head there was a song now, clear and soft, and if he had been able to speak of it, he would have called it the Song of the Family.



His blanket was over his nose to protect him from the dank air.  His eyes flicked to a rustle beside him.  It was Juana arising, almost soundlessly.  On her hard bare feet she went to the hanging box where Coyotito slept, and she leaned over and said a little reassuring word.  Coyotito looked up for a moment and closed his eyes and slept again.


Juana went to the fire pit and uncovered a coal and fanned it alive while she broke little pieces of brush over it.

Now Kino got up and wrapped his blanket about his head and nose and shoulders.  He slipped his feet into his sandals and went outside to watch the dawn.
	奇诺在灰暗中醒来。星星还在闪耀，白昼在东方的天边也只画下了一抹淡淡的亮光。公鸡叫了半天，早起的猪群也已经开始不停地翻动着小树枝和碎木片，看看有没有漏过什么能吃的东西。在茅屋外面的霸王树丛中，一群小鸟一面嘁嘁喳喳地叫着，一面拍打着翅膀。


奇诺睁开了眼睛，他先看看那个渐渐亮起来的四方形—那是门，然后看看那吊在空中的箱子，那里面睡着小狗子。最后他转过头去看他的妻子胡安娜；他挨着他躺在席子上，他的蓝披巾盖着他的鼻子和乳房，围着他的腰。胡安娜的眼睛也睁开了。奇诺一点也想不起，他在醒来时也曾看到它们闭着过。她的黑眼睛好像一双亮晶晶的小星星。正像她平素醒来的时候那样，她这会儿也在看着他。

奇诺听到早潮轻轻拍着沙滩的声音。那声音非常好听--奇诺又闭上眼睛去听他的音乐。也许只有他一个人这样做，也许他那个民族都那样做。他的民族曾经是伟大的作曲者，因此凡是他们看见、想到、做过或是听到的东西都变成了歌曲。那是很久以前的事了。那些歌曲流传了下来；奇诺知道它们，可是没有新的歌曲增加。这并不是没有个人的歌曲。奇诺的脑子里这会儿就有一支歌，有明朗又柔和，假如他说得出的话，他会管它叫作“家庭之歌”。

他的毯子盖在他的鼻子上，防御着湿冷的空气。他的眼睛朝着身旁一阵沙沙的响声溜了过去。是胡安娜起身了，几乎没有声音。他光着粗硬的脚步走到小狗子睡的吊箱面前，弯下身子轻轻哄了哄他。小狗子仰着头望了一会儿，又闭上眼睛睡着了。

胡安娜走到灶坑前面，拨出一块煤，一面把它扇着，一面把小柴枝折断加在上面。

这时奇诺起身了，用毯子裹起脑袋、鼻子和肩膀。他把脚伸进凉鞋，走到屋外，去看破晓的天色。

（信德 仲南译）

The Pearl 
Extract 2
Now the tension which had been growing in Juana boiled up to the surface and her lips were thin. ‘This thing is evil,’ she cried harshly.  ‘This pearl is like a sin! It will destroy us,’ and her voice rose shrilly. ‘Throw it away, Kino.  Let us break it between stones. Let us throw it back into the sea. It has brought evil. Kino, my husband, it will destroy us.’ And in the firelight her lips and her eyes were alive with her fear.

But Kino’s face was set, and his mind and his will were set. ‘This is our only chance,’ he said. ‘Our son must go to school.  He must break out of the pot that holds us in.’

‘It will destroy us all,’ Juana cried. ‘Even our son.’

‘Hush,’ said Kino. ‘Do not speak any more.  In the morning we will sell the pearl, and then the evil will be gone, and only the good remain.  Now hush, my wife.’  His dark eyes scowled into the little fire, and for the first time he knew that the knife was still in his hands, and he raised the blade and looked at it and saw a little line of blood on the steel. For a moment he seemed about to wipe the blade on his trousers but then he plunged the knife into the earth and so cleansed it.

The distant roosters began to crow and the air changed and the dawn was coming. The wind of the morning ruffled the water of the estuary and whispered through the mangroves, and the little waves beat on the rubbly beach with an increased tempo. Kino raised the sleeping mat and dug up his pearl and put it in front of him and stared at it.

And the beauty of the pearl, winking and glimmering in the light of the little candle, cozened his brain with its beauty. So lovely it was, so soft, and its own music came from it – its music of promise and delight, its guarantee of the future, of comfort, of security.  Its warm lucence promised a poultice against illness and a wall against insult. It closed a door on hunger.  And as he stared at it Kino’s eyes softened and his face relaxed. He could see the little image of the consecrated candle reflected in the soft surface of the pearl, and he heard again in his ears the lovely music of the undersea, the tone of the diffused green light of the sea bottom. Juana, glancing secretly at him, saw him smile. And because they were in some way one thing and one purpose, she smiled with him.

And they began the day with hope.
	现在胡安娜心里早已在增长的紧张情绪涌到表面来了，她的嘴唇也变薄了。“这东西是邪恶的，”她粗声地说。“这颗珍珠就像一桩罪恶！它会把我们毁掉的，”接着她的声音变得又高又尖了。 “把它扔掉，奇诺。我们用两块石头把它压碎吧。它带来了祸害。奇诺，我的丈夫，它会把我们毁掉的。”在火光里，她的嘴唇和她的眼睛都洋溢着恐惧。

但是奇诺的脸一动也不动，他的心和他的意志也不动摇。“这是我们唯一的机会，”他说。“我们的儿子一定得进学校。他一定得打破这个把我们关在里面的罐子。”

“它会把我们都毁掉的，”胡安娜大声说。“甚至儿子。”

“别响，”奇诺说。“别再多说啦。明天早晨我们就把珍珠卖掉，然后祸就消失了，只有福留下来。别响了，我的妻子。”他的黑眼睛瞪着那个小火焰，这时他才发现他的刀还在手里，于是他举起刀身看看，发现钢上面有一小道血迹。有一会儿他似乎打算在他的裤子上擦擦刀身，可是随后他把刀扎进了土地，就这样把它擦干净了。



远处的公鸡开始叫唤，天气也变了，黎明快到了。晨风吹皱了港湾里的水，也从红树丛中飒飒吹过，小浪更急地打在有堆积物的沙滩上。奇诺掀起睡席，把珍珠挖出，搁在面前呆呆地看着。




珍珠在小蜡烛的亮光中闪烁着，以它的美丽哄骗着他的脑子。它是那么可爱，那么柔和，并且发出了自己的音乐—希望和欢乐的音乐，对未来、对舒适、对安全都做了保证。温暖的珠光许给了他一剂抵抗疾病的糊药和一堵抵御侮辱的墙。它向饥饿关上了大门。当奇诺盯着它的时候，他的眼睛变柔和了，他的脸也变轻松了，他可以看到供献用的蜡烛的小影子反映在珍珠的柔和的表面上，同时他耳朵里又听到那可爱的海底的音乐，海底绿色的四散的光芒的调子。胡安娜偷头地瞧了他一眼，看到他在微笑。他们俩在某一方面说来是一个人，怀着一个目的，她也和他一道笑了。




于是他们怀着希望开始了这一天。
（信德 仲南译）

The Pearl
Extract 3
A stout slow man sat in his office waiting. His face was fatherly and benign, and his eyes twinkled with friendship. He was a caller of good mornings, a ceremonious shaker of hands, a jolly man who knew all jokes and yet who hovered close to sadness, for in the midst of a laugh he could remember the death of your aunt, and his eyes would become wet with sorrow for your loss. This morning he had placed a flower in a vase on his desk, a single scarlet hibiscus, and the vase sat beside the black velvet-lined tray in front of him. He was shaved close to the blue roots of his beard, and his hands were clean and his nails polished. His door stood open to the morning, and he hummed under his breath while his right hand practiced legerdemain.  He rolled a coin back and forth over his knuckles and made it appear and disappear, made it spin and sparkle. The coin winked into sight and as quickly slipped out of sight, and the man did not even watch his own performance. The fingers did it all mechanically, precisely, while the man hummed to himself and peered out the door. Then he heard the tramp of feet of the approaching crowd, and the fingers of his right hand worked faster and faster until, as the figure of Kino filled the doorway, the coin flashed and disappeared.

‘Good morning, my friend,’ the stout man said. ‘What can I do for you?’

Kino stared into the dimness of the little office, for his eyes were squeezed from the outside glare.  But the buyer’s eyes had become as steady and unwinking as a hawk’s eyes, while the rest of his face smiled in greeting.  And secretly, behind his desk, his right hand practiced with the coin.


‘I have a pearl,’ said Kino.  And Juan Tomas stood beside him and snorted a little at the understatement.  The neighbors peered around the doorway, and a line of little boys clambered on the window bars and looked through.  Several little boys, on their hands and knees, watched the scene around Kino’s legs.

‘You have a pearl,’ the dealer said. ‘Sometimes a man brings in a dozen.  Well, let us see your pearl.  We will value it and give you the best price.’  And his fingers worked furiously with the coin.


Now Kino instinctively knew his own dramatic effects.  Slowly he brought out the leather bag, slowly took from it the soft and dirty piece of deerskin, and then he let the great pearl roll into the black velvet tray, and instantly his eyes went to the buyer’s face.  But there was no sign, no movement, the face did not change, but the secret hand behind the desk missed in its precision.  The coin stumbled over a knuckle and slipped silently into the dealer’s lap.  And the fingers behind the desk curled into a fist.  When the right hand came out of hiding, the forefinger touched the great pearl, rolled it on the black velvet; thumb and forefinger picked it up and brought it to the dealer’s eyes and twirled it in the air.

Kino held his breath, and the neighbors held their breath, and the whispering went back through the crowd.  ‘He is inspecting it – No price has been mentioned yet – They have not come to a price.’

Now the dealer’s hand had become a personality.  The hand tossed the great pearl back in the tray, the forefinger poked and insulted it, and on the dealer’s face there came a sad and contemptuous smile.

‘I’m sorry, my friend,’ he said, and his shoulders rose a little to indicate that the misfortune was no fault of his.

‘It is a pearl of great value,’ Kino said.


The dealer’s fingers spurned the pearl so that it bounced and rebounded from the side of the velvet tray.

‘You have heard of fool’s gold,’ the dealer said.  ‘This pearl is like fool’s gold.  It is too large.  Who would buy it?  There is no market for such things.  It is a curiosity only.  I am sorry.  You thought it was a thing of value, and it is only a curiosity.’


Now Kino’s face was perplexed and worried.  ‘It is the Pearl of the World,’ he cried. ‘No one has ever seen such a pearl.’

‘On the contrary,’ said the dealer, ‘it is large and clumsy. As a curiosity it has interest; some museum might perhaps take it to place in a collection of seashells.  I can give you, say, a thousand pesos.’


Kino’s face grew dark and dangerous. ‘It is worth fifty thousand,’ he said.  ‘You know it.  You want to cheat me.’

And the dealer heard a little grumble go through the crowd as they heard his price.  And the dealer felt a little tremor of fear.


‘Do not blame me,’ he said quickly. ‘I am only an appraiser. Ask the others. Go to their offices and show your pearl – or better let them come here, so that you can see there is no collusion.  Boy,’  he called.  And when his servant looked through the rear door,   ‘Boy, go to such a one, and such another one and such a third one. Ask them to step to here and do not tell them why.  Just say that I will be pleased to see them.’  And his right hand went behind the desk and pulled another coin from his pocket, and the coin rolled back and forth over the knuckles.

	一个肥胖迟缓的男人坐在一间铺子里等待着。他的脸孔像父亲一般的慈祥。他的眼睛里闪耀着友谊的光芒。他是一个喜欢招呼“您早”的人，一个多礼的握手家，一个知道所有的笑话却又随时流露中悲伤的人，因为在一阵笑声当中他会记起你姑母的逝世，他的眼睛便会为了你的不幸而伤心得落下泪来。这天早晨他在桌子上的花瓶里插了一朵花，单独一朵鲜红的木槿花花瓶就摆在他面前黑天鹅绒镶里的珍珠托盘旁边。他的脸刮得露出了胡子的青根。他的手洗得干干净净，他的手指甲修得整整齐齐。他的门对着早晨敞开着，他一面轻轻地哼唱，一面他的右手练着戏法。他把一个小钱在指关节上滚来滚去，让它忽隐忽现，让它旋转和闪亮。小钱闪现出来了，又同样迅速地不见了，而这人连看也不看自己的动作。当他的手指机械地、精确地做着这一切时，这人一面嘴里哼唱，一面朝门外觑着。然后他听到临近的人群的脚步声，于是他右手的手指头动得越来越快，直到奇诺的身躯堵在门口，小钱才闪了一闪，不见了。

“您早，朋友，”那胖子说。“有什么贵干？”

奇诺凝神朝着这小铺子的幽暗处望着，因为他的眼睛给外面的亮光眩得挤在一起，睁不开了。但是收买人的眼睛却变得像鹰眼一样又沉着又残酷，一霎不霎，而他的脸上的其它部分却迎人笑着。同时隐秘地，在他桌子后面，他的右手玩弄着小钱。

“我有一颗珍珠，” 奇诺说。胡安• 托玛斯站在他旁边，听到这种轻描淡写的说法鼻子里轻轻哼了一声。邻居门围在门口凝神看着，一溜小男孩爬到窗外的木条上朝面里观望。好几个小男孩伏在地上，从奇诺的两条腿的旁边看着这个场面。

“你有一颗珍珠，”珍珠商说。“有时候有人拿来一打。好吧，我们瞧瞧你的珍珠。我们给它估一估，再给你一个最好的价钱。”同时他的手指飞快地滚动着小钱。

奇诺本能地知道自己的戏剧效果。慢吞吞地，他掏出皮口袋，又慢吞吞地从里面取出那块软而脏的鹿皮，然后他让那颗大珍珠滚进黑天鹅绒的托盘，随即他的眼睛就去看收买人的脸。但是没有表情，没有动作，那张脸上没有变化，可是桌子后面那只隐秘的手却突然失去了精确性。小钱在一个指关节上碰倒了，无声地滚到珍珠商的膝上。桌子后面的手指卷成了拳头。右手从隐藏中的地方一出来，食指便去大摸大珍珠，在黑天鹅绒上面滚动它；拇指和食指把它捡了起来，拿到珍珠商的眼前，在空中滴溜溜地转动着。

奇诺屏着气，邻居们也屏着气，同时低语声在人群中往后面传开了：“他正在细细的看它—还没有提家价钱哩—他们还没有谈妥价钱。”

现在珍珠商的手变成了一个人。这只手把大珍珠扔回到托盘里，食指戳它，有侮辱它，同时珍珠商的脸上露出凄惨而轻蔑的笑容。

“我很抱歉，朋友，”他说，同时他的肩膀微微耸起，表示这不幸并不是他的过错。

“这是一颗非常值钱的珍珠，” 奇诺说。

珍珠商的手指推开了珍珠，以致它跳了起来，又从天鹅绒托盘的边上轻轻地反跳回去。

“你听说过傻子的黄金吧，”珍珠商说。“这颗珍珠就像傻子的黄金一样。它太大啦。有谁会买呢？这种东西是没有市场的。它只不过是一个希奇的玩意儿。我很抱歉。你以为它是一件值钱的东西，而它只不过是一个希奇的玩意儿。”

现在奇诺的脸色又惶惑又懊恼。“这是希世宝珠，”他大声地说。“从来没有人看到过这样的珍珠。”

“恰恰相反，”珍珠商说，“它又大又笨”。作为一种希奇玩意儿，它还有趣；一个博物馆也许会要它，把它和一套海洋贝壳收藏在一起。我可以给你，呃，就算一千皮索吧。”

奇诺的脸色变得又阴沉又凶狠了。“它值百万，”他说。“你是知道的。你想要欺骗我。”

同时珍珠商听到一阵喃喃抱怨的声音在人群中传开，当他们听到他的价钱的时候。于是珍珠商感到一阵轻微的颤栗。

“别怪我，”他赶紧说。“我只不过是一个估价的人。问问别的人好啦。到他们的铺子里去，把你的珍珠给我们看看—或者不如让他们到这儿来吧，这样你可以看见我们并没有什么串通勾结。伙计，”他喊。他的仆人从里边的门把脑袋探进来张望，“伙计，到某人那儿去，再还有某某人。请他们到这儿来一下，也别告诉他们干什么。就说我乐意见见他们。”于是他的右手回到桌子后面，又从口袋里掏出一个小钱，接着小钱便在指关节上面来来回回地滚动着。
（信德 仲南译）

The Pearl 
Extract 4
…Kino had grown tight and hard.  He felt the creeping of fate, the circling of wolves, the hover of vultures.  He felt the evil coagulating about him, and he was helpless to protect himself.  He heard in his ears the evil music.  And on the black velvet the great pearl glistened, so that the dealer could not keep his eyes from it.
 
The crowd in the doorway wavered and broke and let the three pearl dealers through. The crowd was silent now, fearing to miss a word, to fail to see a gesture or an expression.  Kino was silent and watchful.  He felt a little tugging at his back, and he turned and looked in Juana’s eyes, and when he looked away he had renewed strength.
       
The dealers did not glance at one another nor at the pearl.  The man behind the desk said, ‘’ I have put a value on this pearl.  The owner here does not think it fair.  I will ask you to examine this – this thing and make an offer.  Notice,’ he said to Kino, ‘I have not mentioned what I have offered.’
        

The first dealer, dry and stringy, seemed now to see the pearl for the first time.  He took it up, rolled it quickly between thumb and forefinger, and then cast it contemptuously back into the tray.
       

‘Do not include me in this discussion,’ he said dryly. ‘I will make no offer at all.  I do not want it.  This is not a pearl – it is a monstrosity.’  His thin lips curled.
        
Now the second dealer, a little man with a shy soft voice, took up the pearl, and he examined it carefully.  He took a glass from his pocket and inspected it under magnification.  Then he laughed softly.

‘Better pearls are made of paste,’ he said. ‘I know these things.  This is soft and chalky, it will lose its color and die in a few months.  Look -.’ He offered the glass to Kino, showed him how to use it, and Kino, who had never seen a pearl’s surface magnified, was shocked at the strange-looking surface.
         
The third dealer took the pearl from Kino’s hands. ‘One of my clients likes such things,’ he said.  ‘I will offer five hundred pesos, and perhaps I can sell it to my client for six hundred.’
         
Kino reached quickly and snatched the pearl from his hand.  He wrapped it in the deerskin and thrust it inside his shirt.
          
The man behind the desk said, ‘I’m a fool, I know, but my first offer stands.  I still offer a thousand.  What are you doing?’ he asked, as Kino thrust the pearl out of sight.
          
‘I am cheated,’ Kino cried fiercely. ‘My pearl is not for sale here.  I will go, perhaps even to the capital.’
          
Now the dealers glanced quickly at one another.  They knew they had played too hard; they knew they would be disciplined for their failure, and the man at the desk said quickly,  ‘I might go to fifteen hundred.’


But Kino was pushing his way through the crowd.  The hum of talk came to him dimly, his rage blood pounded in his ears, and he burst through and strode away.  Juana followed, trotting after him.

	但是奇诺已经变得又坚定又顽强了。他感到命运的爬动，豺狼的包围，兀鹰的翱翔。他感到邪恶正在周围凝结，而他却没有办法来保护自己。他耳朵里听到邪恶的音乐。而大珍珠在黑天鹅绒上闪耀着，以致珍珠商没法把视线从那上面移开。

门口的人群摇晃着让出路来，放进了三个珍珠商。人群现在沉默了，恐怕错过一句话，看漏一个手势或者一个表情。奇诺沉默地注视着。他感到背后有人轻轻拉他一下，他掉转头便碰到胡安娜的眼光，等他再把脸转过去的时候，他便有了新的力量。

珍珠商们既没有彼此看一看，也没有看一看珍珠。桌子后面的那个人说，“我给珍珠估了个价。这位卖主认为不公平。我想请诸位来检验一下这个—这个玩意儿，出个价钱。请你注意，”他对奇诺说，“我可没有提我出的价钱。”

第一个珍珠商，一个干巴巴、瘦得露出青筋的人，似乎方才看到那颗珍珠。他捡起珍珠，迅速地在拇指和食指之间转动着，然后轻蔑地把它扔回到托盘里。

“别让我参加讨论，”他干巴巴地说。“我压根儿不出价。我不要他。这不是一颗珍珠—这是一个怪物。”


现在第二个珍珠商，一个声音羞怯而柔和的小个子，捡起珍珠，仔细端详着。他从口袋里掏出一面放大镜，把珍珠放在下面检查。然后他轻轻一笑。



“人造珍珠都比它强，”他说。“我知道这玩意儿。这珠子又软，又酥，几个月内就会失去光泽，变成废物的。你瞧---”他把镜子递给奇诺，教给他怎么用，于是奇诺—他从来没看到过一颗放大的珍珠的表面---看见那怪模怪样的表面，不由得大吃一惊。

第三个珍珠商从奇诺手里把珍珠拿过去。“我有个主顾喜欢这玩意儿，”他说。“我愿意出五百皮索，也许我能以六百皮索卖给我的主顾。”

奇诺飞快地伸出手去，从他手里把珍珠抢走。他把它包在鹿皮里，又塞进了他的衬衣。

桌子后面那个人说，“我是个傻瓜，我知道，可我开头出的价钱还是算数的。我还出一千。你这是干什么？”当奇诺把珍珠揣在怀里的时候，他问。

“我受骗了，” 奇诺愤愤地喊。“我的珍珠不在这儿卖了。我上别处去，说不定要要首都去。”

现在珍珠商们彼此迅速地看了一眼。他们知道他们搞得太狠了；他们知道他们要是买不成就会挨罚的，于是桌后面的那个人赶忙说，“我可以加到一千五。”

但是奇诺已经从人群中往外挤了。嗡嗡的谈话声隐隐约约地传过来，愤怒之下，血液在他耳朵里砰砰地响着，于是他挤到外面迈着大步子走开了。胡安娜急匆匆地在后面跟着。

（信德 仲南译）

The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde
Extract 1

The lawyer stood awhile when Mr Hyde had left him, the picture of disquietude.  Then he began slowly to mount the street, pausing every step or two, and putting his hand to his brow like a man in mental perplexity.  The problem he was thus debating as he walked was one of a class that is rarely solved.  Mr Hyde was pale and dwarfish; he gave the impression of deformity without any nameable malformation, he had a displeasing smile, he had borne himself to the lawyer with a sort of murderous mixture of timidity and boldness, and he spoke with a husky whispering and somewhat broken voice, - all these were points against him; but not all of these together could explain the hitherto unknown disgust, loathing and fear with which Mr Utterson regarded him.  ‘There must be something else,’ said the perplexed gentleman.  ‘There is something more, if I could find a name for it.  God bless me, the man seems hardly human.  Something troglodytic, shall we say?  or can it be the old story of Dr Fell?  or is it the mere radiance of a foul soul that thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent?  The last, I think; for, Oh my poor old Harry Jekyll, if ever I read Satan’s signature upon a face, it is on that of your new friend.’
	海德先生走后，律师还站了一阵子，心烦意乱，然后慢慢地沿街走回去，每走一两步就停一下，以手加额，如同一个心中疑云密布、苦于索解的人。他一路走时心里在争辩的问题可不那么容易得到解答：海德面色苍白，身材矮小，他给人一种畸形的印象，但又叫人说不出畸在何处。他的笑容叫人不快，他给律师一种胆怯和鲁莽混合的可怕印象，他讲话时候喉咙沙哑，低声轻语，似乎嗓子坏了，所有这些都不是好事，但这些全加起来仍不能说明厄塔森看到他时感到无可名状的厌恶、憎恨和恐怖。“总还有点别的东西，”律师心情沉重地说道，“总还有点别的东西，可我说不出个究竟。 上帝保佑，这个人实在不像有人性，好像有一种人猿似的东西在里面。怎么说好呢？难道那是菲尔博士的老故事？还是仅仅是一个丑恶灵魂的光从里面透出来，使包裹灵魂的肉体发生了变化？如果真是如此，哦，可怜的哈里• 杰基尔，如果我曾在一张脸上看到魔王的签名，那就是在你这位新朋友的脸上。”

（赵毅衡译）



The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde
Extract 2
…The street was small and what is called quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on the weekdays….Even on Sunday, when it veiled its more florid charms and lay comparatively empty of  passage, the street shone out in contrast to its dingy neighbourhood, like a fire in a forest; and with its freshly-painted shutters, well-polished brasses, and general cleanliness and gaiety of note, instantly caught  and pleased the eye of the passenger.


Two doors from one corner, on the left hand going east, the line was broken by the entry of a court; and just at that point, a certain sinister block of building thrust forward its gable on the street.  It was two storeys high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lower storey and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and bore in every feature the marks of prolonged and sordid negligence.  The door, which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker, was blistered and distained. Tramps slouched into the recess and struck matches on the panels; children kept shop upon the steps; the schoolboy had tried his knife on the mouldings; and for close on a generation no one had appeared to drive away these random visitors or to repair their ravages.

Mr Enfield and the lawyer were on the other side of the by street, but when they came  abreast of the entry, the former lifted up his cane and pointed.

‘Did you ever remark that door?’ he asked; and when his companion had replied in the affirmative, ‘It is connected in my mind,’ added he, ‘with a very odd story.’

‘Indeed!’ said Mr Utterson, with a slight change of voice, ‘and what was that?’

	……有一条小街，街很窄，也还算安静。平时不是星期日的时候这里生意倒也兴隆……即使在这星期天，那些色彩缤纷的陈列已罩上纱幕，路上行人稀少。尽管如此，这条街与周围那些邋遢的街相比，仍然光彩照人，犹如森林里烧着的一把火。刚油漆过的百叶窗，擦得光光的黄铜把手，整齐清洁，色调明丽，吸引着过路人的注意，让人感到赏心悦目。

顺左手拐弯，走过两个门面，墙上开着一扇门，通向一座院子。这里有一幢模样难看的两层楼的大房子，它的山墙紧挨着街边，没有窗户，只在底楼有个门，门楣以上的墙面早已褪色，好像没眼睛的额头。种种迹象表明，这里已长期无人打扫，显得又脏又乱。门上既没有铃，也没门环。漆皮起泡，斑斑驳驳。流浪汉懒洋洋地靠在那儿，在门板上划燃火柴；孩子们则在台阶上摆小摊；小学生在墙根凸缘上试刀子。差不多有一代人之久，从没人把这些不速之客赶走，把糟蹋坏的地方修复……

恩菲尔德先生和厄塔森律师这是正走到街对面正对着这道门的地方。恩菲尔德举起手杖指了指门说：
“你注意过这门吗？”他问。他的朋友回答表示肯定，他又说：“这扇门在我记忆中牵涉到一个非常离奇的故事。”


“哦？” 厄塔森说，他的声音有点异样，“怎么回事？”

（赵毅衡译）

Lord of the Flies
Extract 1
They had guessed before that this was an island: clambering among the pink rocks, with the sea on either side, and the crystal heights of air, they had known by some instinct that the sea lay on every side. But there seemed something more fitting in  leaving the last word till they stood on the top, and could see a circular horizon of water. 

Ralph turned to the others. ‘This belongs to us.’


It was roughly boat-shaped: humped near this end with behind them the jumbled descent to the shore.  On either side rocks, cliffs, tree-tops, and a steep slope: forward there, the length of the boat, a tamer descent, tree-clad, with hints of pink: and then the jungly flat of the island, dense green, but drawn at the end to a pink tail.  There, where the island petered out in water, was another island; a rock, almost detached, standing like a fort, facing them across the green with one bold, pink bastion.






The boys surveyed all this, then looked out to sea.  They were high up and the afternoon had advanced; the view was not robbed of sharpness by mirage.

‘That’s a reef.  A coral reef.  I’ve seen pictures like that.’


The reef enclosed more than one side of the island, lying perhaps a mile out and parallel to what they now thought of as their beach.  The coral was scribbled in the sea as though a giant had bent down to reproduce the shape of the island in a flowing, chalk line but tired before he had finished.  Inside was peacock water, rocks and weed showing as in an aquarium; outside was the dark blue of the sea.  The tide was running so that long streaks of foam tailed away from the reef and for a moment they felt the boat was moving steadily astern.

Jack pointed down.

‘That’s where we landed.’


Beyond falls and cliffs there was a gash visible in the trees; there were the splintered trunks and then the drag, leaving only a fringe of palm between the scar and the sea.  There too, jutting into the lagoon, was the platform, with insect-like figures moving near it.

Ralph sketched a twining line from the bald spot on which they stood down a slope, a gully, through flowers, round and down to the rock where the scar started.

‘That’s the quickest way back.’

Eyes shining, mouths open, triumphant, they savoured the right of domination.  They were lifted up: were friends.’
	他们登上山顶以前就猜到了这是个岛：因为在粉红色的岩石中向上爬时，两侧都是大海，高空极其明澈，孩子们本能的意识到四面都是大海。可他们感到，似乎等站到山顶上，同时看到圆环状的海平线时，最后再下结论更合适些。

拉尔夫回头对另两个说：“这个岛归咱们了。”

海岛有点像船：他们所立之处地势隆起，他们身后曲折的地形下延到海岸。两边都是千奇百怪的岩石、峭壁、树梢，山坡很陡。正前方，在船身的范围之内，地形下降的坡度稍稍缓和一些，绿树将土地覆盖。有的地方露出粉红色的岩石。再过去是岛上伸展开来的平坦而浓绿的丛林，最后以一块粉红色的岩石而告终。就在这个岛即将被海水淹没的地方，有着另外一个岛：几乎是同海岛分开有一块像城堡似的岩石矗立着，隔着绿色的海面与孩子们相对，像一个不可跨跃的粉红岩石的棱堡。

孩子们俯瞰着这所有的一切，随后他们站在高高的大海远眺。下午已经过去，而景象仍依稀可见，并没有受到烟霭的干扰。

“那是礁石。一座珊瑚礁。我见过这样的图片。”

这礁石从二、三个方面环绕着小岛，它们位于一英里之外的海中，跟现在孩子们把这儿叫海滩的地方相平行。珊瑚礁在海中散布着，就好像一个巨人曾弯腰要为海岛的轮廓划一条流动的白粉线，可还没来得及划好就因累而作罢。礁石内侧：海水绚烂、暗礁林立、海藻丛生，就像水族馆里的生态展览一样。湛蓝的大海在礁石的外侧。海潮滚滚，礁石那边拖着长长的银白色的浪花泡沫，这让他们感到仿佛是大船正在稳稳地后退着。

杰克指着下面。
“那是咱们登陆的地方啊！”

一道明显的缺口在树林中，在瀑布和峭壁之外。那是断枝残干，往后延伸，在孤岩和大海之间剩下一抹棕榈所造成的。也正在那儿，突入环礁湖的是那块高出的平台，周围有小虫似的人影在跳动着。

从他们所站的平地，拉尔夫朝斜坡方向往下看，模糊的看到一条曲折的线，那是一条穿过野花，盘旋直下到一块岩石的溪谷，孤岩就从那里开始。

“这条路回去最快。”

孩子们眼睛闪着亮光，兴奋地合不拢嘴，他们凯旋而归，品尝着占有的快乐。他们精神振奋，彼此都成了好朋友。

Lord of the Flies
Extract 2
At last Ralph stopped.  He was shivering.
‘Piggy.’
‘Uh?’
‘That was Simon.’
‘You said that before.’
‘Piggy.’
‘Uh?’
‘That was murder.’
‘You stop it!’ said Piggy, shrilly. ‘What good’re you doing talking like that?’
‘He jumped to his feet and stood over Ralph.
‘It was dark.  There was that – that bloody dance.  There was lightning and thunder and rain.  We was scared.’
‘I wasn’t scared,’ said Ralph slowly, ‘I was – I don’t know what I was.’
‘We was scared!’ said Piggy excitedly. ‘Anything might have happened.  It wasn’t – what you said.’
He was gesticulating, searching for a formula.
‘Oh, Piggy!’
Ralph’s voice, low and stricken, stopped Piggy’s gestures.  He bent down and waited.  Ralph, cradling the conch, rocked himself to and fro.
‘Don’t you understand, Piggy?  The things we did –’
‘He may still be –’
‘No.’
‘P’raps he was only pretending –’
Piggy’s voice tailed off at the sight of Ralph’s face.
‘You were outside. Outside the circle. You never really came in. Didn’t you see what we – what they did?’
There was loathing, and at the same time a kind of feverish excitement in his voice.
‘Didn’t you see, Piggy?’
‘Not all that well.  I only got one eye now.  You ought to know that, Ralph.’
Ralph continued to rock to and fro.
‘It was an accident,’ said Piggy suddenly, ‘that’s what it was.  An accident.’ His voice shrilled again. ‘Coming in the dark – he hadn’t no business crawling like that out of the dark.  He was batty.  He asked for it.’  He gesticulated widely again.
‘You didn’t see what they did –’
‘Look, Ralph. We got to forget this. We can’t do no good thinking about it, see?’
‘I’m frightened. Of us. I want to go home. O God, I want to go home.’
‘It was an accident,’ said Piggy stubbornly, ‘and that’s that.’
He touched Ralph’s bare shoulder and Ralph shuddered at the human contact.
‘And look, Ralph,’ Piggy glanced round quickly, then leaned close – ‘don’t let on we was in that dance.  Not to Samneric.’
‘But we were!  All of us!’
Piggy shook his head.
‘Not us till last. They never noticed in the dark. Anyway you said I was only on the outside –’
‘So was I,’ muttered Ralph, ‘I was on the outside too.’
Piggy nodded eagerly.
‘That’s right.  We was on the outside. We never done nothing, we never seen nothing.’
	终于拉尔夫不再笑了，他浑身大战。
“猪崽子。”
“嗯？”
“那是西蒙。”
“你说过了。”
“猪崽子。”
“嗯？”
“那是谋杀呀” 
“别说了！”猪崽子厉声道。“你老那样唠叨有什么用？”
他跳了起来，低头站在那里看着拉尔夫。
“那时天昏地暗。加上—那该死的狂舞。再加上又是闪电，有是霹雳，又是暴雨。这一切把咱们都给吓坏了！”
“我没有吓坏，”拉尔夫慢条斯理地说，“我也不知道自己当时怎么了。”
“咱们全吓坏了！”猪崽子兴奋地说道。“什么事情都会发生的。 那可不是—正如你所说的。”他做着手势，想找句客套话说说。
“哦，猪崽子！”
拉尔夫低沉而又苦恼的话音，使地猪崽子停住了做手势，弯下腰等着。海螺被拉尔夫兜着，身子前后摇晃。  
“猪崽子，你不清楚吗？咱们所干的事情---”
“他可能仍然是——”
“不。”
“他可能只是装做—”
拉尔夫的表情被猪崽子看到时，说话的声音越来越轻。
“你在外面，在圆圈的外面。你从来没有真正进到圈子里过。你就没有看出咱们干的—他们干的事情吗？”
厌恶感夹在拉尔夫的声音中，同时又带着一种狂热的兴奋。
“猪崽子，难道你没有看见吗？”
“没看清楚。现在我只有一只眼睛了。拉尔夫，你应该很了解。”
拉尔夫还在前后摇晃着。
“那只是一次偶然的事情。”他尖声锐气地说道，“仅那么一次，一次碰巧发生的事情。”他尖声锐气地又说。“来到一片漆黑当中—他根本不用那样从黑暗中爬出来。他疯了，自作自受。”猪崽子又大做起手势来。“一场飞来横祸。”
“你没有看见他们干的事情---”
“我说，拉尔夫，那件事咱们应该忘掉。想着它难道有什么好处吗？”
“可把我吓坏了，全都吓坏了。我想要回家。天哪，我真想回家。”
“那是意外事情，”猪崽子固执地说，“情况就是那样。”拉尔夫光光的肩膀任他抚摸着，这种人体的接触却使拉尔夫颤抖一下。
“我说，拉尔夫，”猪崽子匆匆看向四周，然后把身子倾向拉尔夫--“可别泄露咱们跳过那个舞，就是对萨姆纳里克也别说。”
“但是咱们跳过！咱们全都跳过！”
猪崽子晃晃头。
“咱们俩是后来才跳的。 在一团漆黑中他们什么也没有注意到。无论怎样，你说过我只是在圈子外面---”
“那我也是的，”拉尔夫嗫喏着，“我也在外面。”
猪崽子焦急地点着头。
“对呀，咱们在外面，咱们既没有干过什么，也没有看见过什么。” 

Extract 3
‘I should have thought,’ said the officer as he visualised the search before him, ‘I should have thought that a pack of British boys – you’re all British aren’t you? – would have been able to put up a better show than this – I mean-‘

‘It was like that at first,’ said Ralph, ‘before things - ‘
He stopped.
‘We were together then -’

The officer nodded helpfully.

‘I know. Jolly good show. Like the Coral Island.’

Ralph looked at him dumbly. For a moment he had a fleeting picture of the strange glamour that had once invested the beaches.  But the island was scorched up like dead wood – Simon was dead – and Jack had …. The tears began to flow and sobs shook him.  He gave himself up to them now for the first time on the island; great, shuddering spasms of grief that seemed to wrench his whole body.  His voice rose under the black smoke before the burning wreckage of the island; and infected by that emotion, the other little boys began to shake and sob too.  And in the middle of them, with filthy body, matted hair, and unwiped nose, Ralph wept for the end of innocence, the darkness of man’s heart, and the fall through the air of the true, wise friend called Piggy.

The officer, surrounded by these noises, was moved and a little embarrassed.  He turned away to give them time to pull themselves together; and waited, allowing his eyes to rest on the trim cruiser in the distance.
	“我本以为，”军官说，一个所有孩子都在搜寻拉尔夫的情况浮现在他的脑海中，“我本以为一群英国孩子—你们都是英国人吧，是不是？---应该比刚才玩得更好—我是说---”
“起初是玩得很好的，”拉尔夫说，“可后来—”

他不说话了。

“后来我们在一起---”

军官鼓励地点点头。
“我知道了。弄得真像珊瑚岛那样。”
拉尔夫木然地看着他。一时他脑海里闪过那曾经给海滩蒙上过神奇魅力的图画。然而这个岛被烧焦得像枯树一样—西蒙死了---杰克已经……拉尔夫止不住热泪滚滚，全身抽搐地呜咽起来。这是他上岛以来第一次尽情地哭。他的整个身子仿佛被具体的悲痛一阵阵地抽搐，扭成了一团。头上黑烟翻滚，拉尔夫面对着正被烧毁的岛屿，而哭得一发不可收拾；别的小孩似有同感，也颤抖着抽泣起来。在这伙孩子当中有肮脏不堪，蓬头散发，连鼻子都未擦擦的拉尔夫。他为童心的泯灭和人性的黑暗而悲泣，为忠实而又有头脑的朋友猪崽子坠落惨死而悲泣。


军官被这一片哭声所感动了，有点不知所措。他转过身去。眼睛看着远处那艘漂亮的巡洋舰，让他们有时间镇定一下，他等待着。


